This package was debianized by Matthias Klose doko@debian.org on
Mon,  9 Mar 1998 11:00:24 +0100.

It was downloaded from http://numpy.sourceforge.net/

Copyright:

Distributed as a public service by X-Division, Lawrence Livermore
National Laboratory. Contact support@icf.llnl.gov for questions
regarding this distribution.

Most of Numerical Python was developed outside of LLNL. To the extent
that any of this package represents work done at LLNL the following
notice applies.

*** Legal Notice for all LLNL-contributed files or revisions ***

			Copyright (c) 1996.
	    The Regents of the University of California.
			All rights reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
purpose without fee is hereby granted, provided that this entire notice
is included in all copies of any software which is or includes a copy
or modification of this software and in all copies of the supporting
documentation for such software.

This work was produced at the University of California, Lawrence
Livermore National Laboratory under contract no. W-7405-ENG-48 between
the U.S. Department of Energy and The Regents of the University of
California for the operation of UC LLNL.

			      DISCLAIMER

This software was prepared as an account of work sponsored by an
agency of the United States Government. Neither the United States
Government nor the University of California nor any of their employees,
makes any warranty, express or implied, or assumes any liability or
responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of any
information, apparatus, product, or process disclosed, or represents
that its use would not infringe privately-owned rights. Reference
herein to any specific commercial products, process, or service by
trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily
constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the
United States Government or the University of California. The views and
opinions of authors expressed herein do not necessarily state or reflect
those of the United States Government or the University of California,
and shall not be used for advertising or product endorsement purposes.
