This is the cairo roadmap

Everything here is subject to change, but it is hoped that all of it
will be useful. If you want to influence the roadmap, please feel free
to get involved with cairo (see http://cairographics.org ).

cairo 1.4.4 (scheduled for 2007-04-09)
======================================
 ✓ Mathias Hasselmann's "static region" patch series, (to be reviewed
   by behdad, and performance tested by cworth)

 ✓ Chris Wilson's many recent cleanups, (to be reviewed by behdad and cworth)

 ✓ 5777 fbcompose.c broken for some composite operations post r1.5
   (choose one of the existing patches)

 ✓ 10531 cairo nquartz backend floating point precision issues (bewins)

 ✓ 10508 Transformed image source surfaces sometimes misrender to xlib
   surface target (cworth)

cairo 1.4.x (not scheduled, may become part of 1.6)
===================================================
 • Fix all remaining XFAIL failures from the test suite
	a8mask has a patch available on the list

 • Implement CAIRO_EXTEND_PAD for surface patterns

 • Work around bug in X server causing extend-reflect test to hang it

 • Eliminate problems with "unsupported image formats" for xlib,
   (very frequently duplicated bug reports and a regression since
   cairo 1.0.x apparently)

	7735 cairo doesn't support 8-bit truecolor visuals
	4945 Cairo doesn't support 8-bit pseudocolor visuals
	9993 Cairo fails with 555 X server visual

 ✓ Discard trapezoids that lie outside the clip region (cworth)

 • Review and land AltiVec patches

 • Update bindings chapter of documentation to reflect new APIs
   (get_reference_count() and user_data for all)

cairo 1.6 (scheduled for July 2007, targeting firefox and GNOME)
================================================================
 • David Turner's cairo-ft rewrite. (behdad)
   http://david.freetype.org/cairo/

 • Change from 16.16 to 24.8 (or so) for fixed-point storage (cworth)

 • Implement a faster lookup-table-based rasterizer (cworth)

 • Internal move to cairo_object_t (Chris 'ickle' Wilson)

 • New cairo-xlib API to support IncludeInferior Pictures (see bug
	10329 for one proposal --- perhaps do
	cairo_xlib_surface_create_for_picture instead)

 • New cairo-xlib-xrender API:

	XRenderPictFormat *
	cairo_xlib_surface_get_xrender_format (cairo_surface_t *surface);

 • Make cairo-quartz a supported backend (vlad)

 • Make cairo-xcb a supported backend (Jamey Sharp)

 • A significant improvement to pixman compositing code (jrmuizel)
   jrmuizel's recent work and other ideas going on).

 • User-font API (behdad, krh)
	http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/cairo/2007-February/009539.html
	http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/cairo/2006-May/006893.html
	http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/cairo/2006-May/006888.html

 • cairo_font_options_[gs]et_writing_mode()  (behdad)
	http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/cairo/2007-January/009372.html

 • cairo_font_metrics_t (behdad)
	http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/cairo/2007-January/009373.html

 • New text API that allows for perfect text extraction in PDF (behdad)

 • Set PS Level for the PS backend (adrianj)

 • EPS output from the PS backend (adrianj)

 • API to allow enable/disabling certain subsetters (adrianj)
	http://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=8180#c28
	This would also be useful feature to control via an environment
	variable as it would allow the user to override the application
	settings.

 • Debug environment variable to disable PDF compression (adrianj)
	http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/cairo/2007-February/009492.html

For other ideas that have been proposed for cairo but are not yet
scheduled on the roadmap of any particular release, please see the
TODO file next to this ROADMAP file.

Where does the information on this roadmap come from?
=====================================================
The intent is for this to be a living document. We want both the users
of cairo, (GTK+, GNOME, Mozilla, Mono, etc. etc.) to let us know
features they need and dates by which they are needed so that we can
use those to guide our plans.

Additionally, people who are actively developing cairo itself should
regularly update this document to reflect their current plans. If you
don't want to see a particular release happen without some essential
feature, then put that feature on the list and put your name next to
it to indicate you are working on it.

Targets
=======
Firefox 3.0 - http://www.mozilla.org/projects/firefox/roadmap.html
------------------------------------------------------------------
Firefox 3 is the first release expected to use cairo for all
rendering. In the meantime, development builds using cairo are
available. Late June 2007 appears to be a rough deadline for when
mozilla would like to freeze on a cairo release, (as mentioned by
Vladimir in a cairo meeting on 2007-04-02). No new cairo API is
needed, but performance improvements are always appreciated.

GNOME - http://live.gnome.org/TwoPointSeventeen
-----------------------------------------------
GNOME has a regular (6 month) release schedule, so there's always
another GNOME release coming up soon.
