About Repositories for the Application Installer 2006
=====================================================

Repository structure
--------------------

The Application installer can deal with any repository that "apt-get"
can use.  However, the Application installer only shows 'user'
packages to the user.  A user packages is identified by being in the
"user" component (or 'section') of a distribution.

More precisely, any package with a "Section" value of the form
"user/<category>" is a user package.

Thus, you might not be able to freely choose the components of the
distributions in your repository.

(The Application installer is able to automatically satisfy
dependencies from any configured component of a distribution, the
"user" component is only used to determine which packages to show to
the user.)


"New repository dialog" defaults
--------------------------------

When adding a new repository from the UI, the Application installer
provides default values for distribution and components.

The distribution will default to the distribution that contains the
Application installer itself.  For maemo 2.0, this will be "mistral".

The component list defaults to just "user".


Setting up a repository with certified packages
-----------------------------------------------

The AI can recognize certain parts of repositories as 'certified'.
Packages coming from those parts are installed without showing the big
fat warning dialog to the user.  (But that is the only difference
between certified parts and non-certified ones.)

The way to configure such a certified part is to specify a URI prefix;
all archive files downloaded from a location with that prefix are
considered certified if the corresponding Release file has been signed
and successfully verified.

The Release file can be signed by _any_ key known to apt to be
accepted for a certified part.  This is acceptable since only
known-good public keys are factory-configured and if the attacker has
enough access to the device to configure a key for his dns-spoofed
repository, he has breached the device already from our point of view.

The reason for basing the 'is-certified' test on a URI prefix instead
of on "deb" lines in sources.list, say, or (URI, Distribution,
Component) tuples is simplicity: The URI prefix test can be done very
easily, and without modifying libapt-pkg.  (It might or not might not
be a good idea to use pool/ directories for certified parts of a
repository.  It is probably simpler to not use them.)

The reason that any key is accepted when verifying the signature on
the Release file of a certified part is again simplicity and the
desire not to modify libapt-pkg at this point.  As far as I can see,
libapt-pkg does not remember which keys succeeded in verifying the
signature.  This could be improved in the future.


The list of URI prefixes of certified repository parts is contained in
the file /etc/osso-application-installer/certified.list.  It consists
of lines of the forms

    uri-prefix <uri-prefix>

where <uri-prefix> must not contain whitespace and must match the URI
of a downloaded package literally (i.e., no %xx escape expansion is
done, etc).  Everything after and including the first '#' in a line is
ignored.  Blank lines are allowed, of course.


Disabling repositories
----------------------

The Application installer lets the user edit parts of the contents of
/etc/apt/sources.list.  It recognizes lines marked with "deb" and
"#deb" and preserves everything else.  A "deb" line is the usual
specification for a source of binary packages.  A "#deb" line is the
same, but disabled.  When enabling/disabling a repository, the
Application installer switches between the "deb" and "#deb" marker.

There must be no space between "#" and "deb" in the "#deb" marker for
it to be recognized by the Application installer.


Marking a repository as essential
---------------------------------

A "deb" or "#deb" line in /etc/apt/sources.list can be marked as
'essential'.  The Application installer will refuse to change or
remove such a line.

The way to mark a line as essential is to put a line of the form
"#maemo:essential" before the line.  The "#maemo:essential" marker
must be on a line of its own, with no whitespace between "#" and
"maemo:essential".  The marker does not have to immediately precede
the "deb" or "#deb" line.
