.TH "gpgv" "1" 
.SH "NAME" 
gpgv \(em signature verification tool 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP 
.nf 
\fBgpgv\fR  [\fBoptions\fR]  [\fBsigned files\fR]    
.fi 
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
\fBgpgv\fR is the OpenPGP signature checking tool. 
 
.PP 
This program is a stripped down version of \fBgpg\fR which is only 
able 
to check signatures.  It is somewhat smaller than the full blown 
\fBgpg\fR and uses a different (and more simple way) to check that 
the public keys used to made the signature are trustworth.  There is 
no options files and only very few options are implemented. 
.PP 
\fBgpgv\fR assumes that all keys in the keyring are trustworty. 
It uses by default a keyring named \fBtrustedkeys.gpg\fP which is 
assumed to be in the home directory as defined by GnuPG or set by an 
option or an environment variable.  An option may be used to specify 
another keyring or even multiple keyrings. 
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.PP 
\fBgpgv\fR recognizes these options: 
.IP "\-v, \-\-verbose" 10 
Give more information during processing. If used 
twice, the input data is listed in detail. 
.IP "\-q, \-\-quiet" 10 
Try to be as quiet as possible. 
.IP "\-\-keyring \fBfile\fR" 10 
Add \fBfile\fR to the list of keyrings. 
If \fBfile\fR begins with a tilde and a slash, these 
are replaced by the HOME directory. If the filename 
does not contain a slash, it is assumed to be in the 
home-directory ("~/.gnupg" if \-\-homedir is not used). 
The filename may be prefixed with a scheme: 
.IP "" 10 
"gnupg-ring:" is the default one. 
.IP "\-\-homedir \fBdirectory\fR" 10 
Set the name of the home directory to \fBdirectory\fR If this 
option is not used it defaults to "~/.gnupg". It does 
not make sense to use this in a options file. This 
also overrides the environment variable "GNUPGHOME". 
.IP "\-\-status-fd \fBn\fR" 10 
Write special status strings to the file descriptor \fBn\fR. 
See the file DETAILS in the documentation for a listing of them. 
.IP "\-\-logger-fd \fBn\fR" 10 
Write log output to file descriptor \fBn\fR and not to stderr. 
.IP "\-\-ignore-time-conflict" 10 
GnuPG normally checks that the timestamps associated with keys and 
signatures have plausible values.  However, sometimes a signature seems to 
be older than the key due to clock problems.  This option makes these 
checks just a warning. 
.SH "RETURN VALUE" 
.PP 
The program returns 0 if everything was fine, 1 if at least 
one signature was bad, and other error codes for fatal errors. 
 
.SH "EXAMPLES" 
.IP "gpgv \fBpgpfile\fR" 10 
.IP "gpgv \fBsigfile\fR [\fBfiles\fR]" 10 
Verify the signature of the file. The second form 
is used for detached signatures, where \fBsigfile\fR is the detached 
signature (either ASCII armored or binary) and [\fBfiles\fR] are the signed 
data; if this is not given the name of the file holding the signed data is 
constructed by cutting off the extension (".asc", ".sig" or ".sign") from 
\fBsigfile\fR. 
.SH "ENVIRONMENT" 
.IP "HOME" 10 
Used to locate the default home directory. 
.IP "GNUPGHOME" 10 
If set directory used instead of "~/.gnupg". 
.SH "FILES" 
.IP "~/.gnupg/trustedkeys.gpg" 10 
The default keyring with the allowed keys 
.\" created by instant / docbook-to-man, Tue 31 May 2005, 10:55 
