This is the theme support package for maemo/hildon 3
----------------------------------------------------

This package contains a number of readymades and data files that can be
used to easily created themes that are compatible with the maemo
platform version 3.

The basic tool for creating a theme for maemo 3 is
'hildon-theme-install-3'.  This program will create a directory that
can be dropped into /usr/share/themes on a maemo/hildon device.  You would
normally put this directory into a suitable Debian package.

Gtk+ themes for the maemo platform usually are graphics intensive;
they are mainly defined by a number of small images that are displayed
in different ways by the Gtk+ widgets.  Using hildon-theme-install
allows you to specify your own images (and the colors that are used in
certain areas that are not covered by images), but nothing else.  You
can't change fonts, for example, or make bigger layout changes.

The images for a theme are defined by a single big template image.
Hildon-theme-install-3 will cut out parts of the big image to produce
the smaller image files that are referenced by the gtkrc files.
hildon-theme-install-3 will also look into the big image to find the
colors used for the non-image areas of widgets.

The coordinates where to cut the big image are fixed.  The
hildon-theme-layout-3 package installs a template image in
/usr/share/doc/hildon-theme-layout-3/ that you can use as a layer in
your graphics editor.  Of course, it is probably easiest to start from
an existing theme.

Thus, to summarize, the whole theme is defined by one big image, and
the hildon-install-theme-3 tool from this package will create all
suitable files from it.  Right now, you still need to take care of
making the .deb package yourself, tho.
