PyGTK
=====
Author: James Henstridge <james@daa.com.au>


This archive contains modules that allow you to use gtk in Python
programs.  At present, it is a fairly complete set of bindings.
Despite the low version number, this piece of software is quite
useful, and is usable to write moderately complex programs.  (see the
examples directory for some examples of the simpler programs you could
write).

If you have any enhancements or bug reports, please file them in
bugzilla at:
  http://bugzilla.gnome.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=pygtk

If you have a patch, file the bug first and then use the "create new
attachment" link on the bug's info page.  My preferred format for
patches is unified diff format (ie. diff -u).  Please don't send me
diffs which don't have any context, as these make it very difficult to
see what the patch does.


New Versions
============

New versions of this package can be found at:
  http://ftp.gnome.org/pub/GNOME/sources/pygtk/


Mailing list
============

There is a mailing list for pygtk.  You can subscribe to it through
the web interface:
  http://www.daa.com.au/mailman/listinfo/pygtk


Requirements
============
  * C compiler (GCC and MSVC supported)
  * Python 2.3 or higher
  * Glib 2.6.0 or higher
  * Gtk+ 2.6.0 or higher (optional)
  * libglade 2.4.0 (optional)
  * Numeric (optional)

Copyright Information
=====================

This software is covered by the GNU Lesser General Public Licence
(version 2.1, or if you choose, a later version).  Basically just don't
say you wrote bits you didn't.

Compilation
===========

PyGTK uses the standard autotools for the build infrastructure.  To
build, it should be as simple as running:

    $ ./configure --prefix=<prefix where python is installed>
    $ make
    $ make install

If your Python interpreter isn't in the path, or is not called
"python", you can set the PYTHON environment variable to the full path
of the interpreter:

    $ PYTHON=/prefix/bin/python
    $ export PYTHON

If configure can't find GTK+, you may need to set the PKG_CONFIG_PATH
environment variable to help it find the libraries.

The "make install" target will generate normal and optimised bytecode
for all the .py files.

Note. If you're installing to another prefix than the one where python
is installed you'll need to set the PYTHONPATH variable to the
$prefix/lib/pythonX.Y/site-packages directory created by 
the PyGTK installation.

Upgrading
=========

The API has changed a fair bit compared to the 0.6.x releases of pygtk
in response to feedback from the mailing list.  The main changes are:
  - no low level procedural interface.  The extension now implements
    the object oriented API directly, rather than layering it on top
    of a procedural API.
  - class names have been shortened.  Eg. instead of gtk.GtkWindow, we
    now have gtk.Window.
  - GDK classes and functions have been moved to the "gtk.gdk" module.
  - the GTK and GDK modules have been removed, with their constants
    being moved into the "gtk" and "gtk.gdk" modules.


Tests
=====

After having compiled and installed pygtk, you may want to test them.
There are a number of example programs available in the examples/
subdirectory.


Getting Help
============

If you have questions about programming with PyGTK, you might want to
send a message to the mailing list (information on subscribing is
above).  Alternatively, your question may be answered in the FAQ:

    http://www.async.com.br/faq/pygtk/?req=index
